feat: add `blas/base/cscal` (#2104)
stdlib-js/stdlib: lib/node_modules/@stdlib/blas/base/cscal/README.md

WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# cscal

> Scales a single-precision complex floating-point vector by a single-precision complex floating-point constant.

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var cscal = require( '@stdlib/blas/base/cscal' );
```

#### cscal( N, ca, cx, strideX )

Scales values from `cx` by `ca`.

```javascript
var Complex64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/complex64' );
var Complex64 = require( '@stdlib/complex/float32' );
var realf = require( '@stdlib/complex/realf' );
var imagf = require( '@stdlib/complex/imagf' );

var cx = new Complex64Array( [ 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0 ] );
var ca = new Complex64( 2.0, 0.0 );

cscal( 3, ca, cx, 1 );

var z = cx.get( 0 );
// returns <Complex64>

var re = realf( z );
// returns 2.0

var im = imagf( z );
// returns 2.0
```

The function has the following parameters:

-   **N**: number of indexed elements.
-   **ca**: scalar [`Complex64`][@stdlib/complex/float32] constant. 
-   **cx**: input [`Complex64Array`][@stdlib/array/complex64].

> -   **strideX**: index increment for `x`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **strideX**: index increment for `cx`.
```

The `N` and stride parameters determine how values from `cx` are scaled by `ca`. For example, to scale every other value in `cx` by `ca`,

```javascript
var Complex64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/complex64' );
var Complex64 = require( '@stdlib/complex/float32' );
var realf = require( '@stdlib/complex/realf' );
var imagf = require( '@stdlib/complex/imagf' );

var cx = new Complex64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 7.0, 8.0 ] );
var ca = new Complex64( 2.0, 0.0 );

cscal( 2, ca, cx, 2 );

var z = cx.get( 2 );
// returns <Complex64>

var re = realf( z );
// returns 10.0

var im = imagf( z );
// returns 12.0
```

Note that indexing is relative to the first index. To introduce an offset, use [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views.

<!-- eslint-disable stdlib/capitalized-comments -->

```javascript
var Complex64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/complex64' );
var Complex64 = require( '@stdlib/complex/float32' );
var realf = require( '@stdlib/complex/realf' );
var imagf = require( '@stdlib/complex/imagf' );

> // Initial array...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Initial array:
```

`:` vs `...`: use colons to comment specific lines. Use ellipsis to comment multiple lines/blocks of code (e.g., for loops).

var cx0 = new Complex64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 7.0, 8.0 ] );

> // Complex constant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Define a scalar constant:
```

var ca = new Complex64( 2.0, 2.0 );

> // Create offset views...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Create an offset view:
```

var cx1 = new Complex64Array( cx0.buffer, cx0.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT*1 ); // start at 2nd element

// Scales every other value from `cx1` by `ca`...
cscal( 3, ca, cx1, 1 );

var z = cx0.get( 1 );
// returns <Complex64>

var re = realf( z );
// returns -2.0

var im = imagf( z );
// returns 14.0
```

#### cscal.ndarray( N, ca, cx, strideX, offsetX )

Scales values from `cx` by `ca` using alternative indexing semantics.

```javascript
var Complex64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/complex64' );
var Complex64 = require( '@stdlib/complex/float32' );
var realf = require( '@stdlib/complex/realf' );
var imagf = require( '@stdlib/complex/imagf' );

var cx = new Complex64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ] );
var ca = new Complex64( 2.0, 2.0 );

cscal.ndarray( 3, ca, cx, 1, 0 );

var z = cx.get( 0 );
// returns <Complex64>

var re = realf( z );
// returns -2.0

var im = imagf( z );
// returns 6.0
```

The function has the following additional parameters:

> -   **offsetX**: starting index for `x`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **offsetX**: starting index for `cx`.
```

> While [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views mandate a view offset based on the underlying buffer, the offset parameter support indexing semantics based on starting indices. For example, to scale every other value in the input strided array starting from the second element,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views mandate a view offset based on the underlying buffer, the offset parameter supports indexing semantics based on a starting index. For example, to scale every other value in the input strided array starting from the second element,
```

<!--

@license Apache-2.0

Copyright (c) 2024 The Stdlib Authors.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# cscal

> > Scales a complex single-precision floating-point vector by a single-precision floating point constant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Scales a single-precision complex floating-point vector by a single-precision complex floating-point constant.
```

Follow project conventions.

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var cscal = require( '@stdlib/blas/base/cscal' );
```

> #### cscal( N, cx, x, strideX )

Reviewer: This API seems confused. It should be

```
cscal( N, ca, cx, strideX )
```

where `ca` is [`Complex64`](https://github.com/stdlib-js/stdlib/tree/develop/lib/node_modules/%40stdlib/complex/float32), not a `Complex64Array`.

Scales values from `x` by `cx`.

```javascript
var Complex64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/complex64' );
var realf = require( '@stdlib/complex/realf' );
var imagf = require( '@stdlib/complex/imagf' );

var x = new Complex64Array( [ 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0, 1.0 ] );
var cx = new Complex64Array( [ 2.0, 0.0 ] );
cscal( 3, cx, x, 1 );

var z = x.get( 0 );
// returns <Complex64>

var re = realf( z );
// returns 2.0

var im = imagf( z );
// returns 2.0
```

The function has the following parameters:

-   **N**: number of indexed elements.

> -   **cx**: complex constant 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   **cx**: scalar [`Complex64`][@stdlib/complex/float32] constant.
```

You'll need to add the link definition below. Also note the trailing period.

The `N` and stride parameters determine how values from `x` are scaled by `cx`. For example, to scale every other value in `x` by `cx`,

```javascript
var Complex64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/complex64' );
var realf = require( '@stdlib/complex/realf' );
var imagf = require( '@stdlib/complex/imagf' );

var x = new Complex64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 7.0, 8.0 ] );
var cx = new Complex64Array( [ 2.0, 0.0 ] );

cscal( 2, cx, x, 2 );

var z = x.get( 2 );
// returns <Complex64>

var re = realf( z );
// returns 10.0

var im = imagf( z );
// returns 12.0
```

Note that indexing is relative to the first index. To introduce an offset, use [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views.

<!-- eslint-disable stdlib/capitalized-comments -->

```javascript
var Complex64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/complex64' );
var realf = require( '@stdlib/complex/realf' );
var imagf = require( '@stdlib/complex/imagf' );

// Initial arrays...
var x0 = new Complex64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0, 7.0, 8.0 ] );
var cx = new Complex64Array( [ 2.0, 2.0 ] );

// Create offset views...
var x1 = new Complex64Array( x0.buffer, x0.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT*1 ); // start at 2nd element

> // Copy in reverse order every other value from `x1` into `y1`...

Reviewer: This comment is incorrect. Either `x0` needs to grow and the stride be updated, or the comment needs to change.

Reviewer: But also, the comment is just wrong more generally.

cscal( 3, cx, x1, 1 );

var z = x0.get( 1 );
// returns <Complex64>

var re = realf( z );
// returns -2.0

var im = imagf( z );
// returns 14.0
```

#### cscal.ndarray( N, cx, x, strideX, offsetX )

Scales values from `x` by `cx` using alternative indexing semantics.

```javascript
var Complex64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/complex64' );
var realf = require( '@stdlib/complex/realf' );
var imagf = require( '@stdlib/complex/imagf' );

var x = new Complex64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ] );
var cx = new Complex64Array( [ 2.0, 2.0 ] );

cscal.ndarray( x.length, cx, x, 1, 0 );

var z = x.get( 0 );
// returns <Complex64>

var re = realf( z );
// returns -2.0

var im = imagf( z );
// returns 6.0
```

The function has the following additional parameters:

-   **offsetX**: starting index for `x`.

> While [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views mandate a view offset based on the underlying buffer, the offset parameters support indexing semantics based on starting indices. For example, to scale every other value in `x` starting from the second value by `cx` where `x[i] = cx[0] * x[i]`, `x[i+1] = cx[1] * x[i+1]`,...,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views mandate a view offset based on the underlying buffer, the offset parameter support indexing semantics based on starting indices. For example, to scale every other value in the input strided array starting from the second element,
```

Use BLAS naming conventions here and elsewhere. https://github.com/OpenMathLib/OpenBLAS/blob/develop/lapack-netlib/BLAS/SRC/cscal.f

Reviewer: Also, there seem to be a number of copy-paste errors in this PR.

// returns 30.0
```

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<section class="notes">

## Notes

-   If `N <= 0` or `strideX <= 0` , both functions return `x` unchanged.
-   `cscal()` corresponds to the [BLAS][blas] level 1 function [`cscal`][cscal].

</section>

<!-- /.notes -->

<section class="examples">

## Examples

<!-- eslint no-undef: "error" -->

```javascript
var Complex64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/complex64' );
var discreteUniform = require( '@stdlib/random/base/discrete-uniform' );
var filledarrayBy = require( '@stdlib/array/filled-by' );
var Complex64 = require( '@stdlib/complex/float32' );
var cscal = require( '@stdlib/blas/base/cscal' );

function rand() {
    return new Complex64( discreteUniform( 0, 10 ), discreteUniform( -5, 5 ) );
}

var x = filledarrayBy( 10, 'complex64', rand );
console.log( x.get( 0 ).toString() );
var cx = new Complex64Array( [ 2.0, 2.0 ] );

// Scales elements from `x` by `cx`:
cscal( x.length, cx, x, 1 );
console.log( x.get( x.length-1 ).toString() );
```

</section>

<!-- /.examples -->

<!-- Section for related `stdlib` packages. Do not manually edit this section, as it is automatically populated. -->

<section class="related">

> 
> * * *
> 
> ## See Also
> 
> -   <span class="package-name">[`@stdlib/blas/base/cswap`][@stdlib/blas/base/cswap]</span><span class="delimiter">: </span><span class="description">interchanges two complex single-precision floating-point vectors.</span>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Don't manually populate this section. For any new package, contents should be removed.

</section>

<!-- /.related -->

<!-- Section for all links. Make sure to keep an empty line after the `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="links">

[blas]: http://www.netlib.org/blas

[cscal]: https://www.netlib.org/lapack/explore-html/d2/de8/group__scal_gacce468103c83fa18bae078d5f49fefe2.html#gacce468103c83fa18bae078d5f49fefe2

[mdn-typed-array]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray

[@stdlib/array/complex64]: https://github.com/stdlib-js/stdlib/tree/develop/lib/node_modules/%40stdlib/array/complex64

> <!-- <related-links> -->
> 
> [@stdlib/blas/base/cswap]: https://github.com/stdlib-js/stdlib/tree/develop/lib/node_modules/%40stdlib/blas/base/cswap
> 
> <!-- </related-links> -->
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Same comment.
